---
layout: post
title:  "Pet Sales Analysis Project"
date:   2023-02-12 17:09:05 -0500
categories: python
published: true
permalink: /:categories/:title.html
---

PetMind must launch a monthly pet box subscription to reduce the cost of customer retention and improve improving brand loyalty. Your job? Answer pressing questions to lead the company forward.
<!-- Data Camp challenges its students beyond tutorials and daily challenges with competitions and certifications. With the Data Analyst Associate certification, you are expected to complete a practical exam that requires you write the code and answer business-associated questions. (You can do the coding in *Excel* or a programming language like *R* or *Python*, whichever you prefer). -->

Laid forth by Data Camp in its practical examination for the Data Analyst Associate certificate, I answered 3 essential questions:

- How many products are being purchased more than once?
- Do the products being purchased again have better sales than others?
- What products are more likely to be purchased again for different types of pets?

Find answers to these questions and learn how I did so by accessing the project [here](https://github.com/add0794/pet_sales_analysis/blob/1526e06fd0b8338261c4ab0718ad06529486883e/README.md).

<h2>FAQ:</h2>

- What programming language did you use? **Python**
- Why did you do this project? **Practical examination for DataCamp's Data Analyst Associate certificate.**
- What do you think you did well? **Pandas is challenging to navigate at times, but I was able to integrate it effectively with Matplotlib.**
- What's the most important lesson you learned? **Data can uncover critical marketing strategies: focus on a particularly popular product associated with a given category. In this case, market bedding for dogs.**
- If you did this project again, what would you do differently? **Data can only uncover so much until it becomes a chore. Therefore, highlighting useful key performance indicators (KPIs) in a *Conclusion* section ensures projects can easily be replicated.** 